Title: Physiological characterization of single-gene lysis proteins.
Abstract: Single-strand RNA (ssRNA) and single-strand DNA phages elicit host lysis using a single gene, in each case designated as <i>sgl</i>. Of the 11 identified Sgls, three have been shown to be specific inhibitors of different steps in the pathway that supplies lipid II to the peptidoglycan (PG) biosynthesis machinery. These Sgls have been called "protein antibiotics" because the lytic event is a septal catastrophe indistinguishable from that caused by cell wall antibiotics. Here, we designate these as type I Sgls. In this formalism, the other eight Sgls are assigned to type II, the best-studied of which is protein L of the paradigm F-specific ssRNA phage MS2. Comparisons have suggested that type II Sgls have four sequence elements distinguished by hydrophobic and polar character. Environmental metatranscriptomics has revealed thousands of new ssRNA phage genomes, each of which presumably has an Sgl. Here, we describe methods to distinguish type I and type II Sgls. Using phase contrast microscopy, we show that both classes of Sgls cause the formation of blebs prior to lysis, but the location of the blebs differs significantly. In addition, we show that L and other type II Sgls do not inhibit the net synthesis of PG, as measured by radio-labeling of PG. Finally, we provide direct evidence that the Sgl from <i>Pseudomonas</i> phage PP7 is a type I Sgl, in support of a recent report based on a genetic selection. This shows that the putative four-element sequence structure suggested for L is not a reliable discriminator for the operational characterization of Sgls.

Rating: This abstract discusses the specifics of Single-Strand RNA (ssRNA) and DNA phages which are closely related to lysis functionality and phage therapy. It does mention the MS2 Phage, and the different types of lysis proteins, which is valuable when considering potential protein modifications within these Phages. However, it does not explicitly reference the MS2 Phage's interaction with DNAJ, which is part of the research goal. Therefore, I would rate this abstract as moderately relevant. 

Rating: 7/10.
------------------------------
Title: Comparing the Fate and Transport of MS2 Bacteriophage and Sodium Fluorescein in a Karstic Chalk Aquifer.
Abstract: Groundwater flow and contaminant migration tracing is a vital method of identifying and characterising pollutant source-pathway-receptor linkages in karst aquifers. Bacteriophages are an attractive alternative tracer to non-reactive fluorescent dye tracers, as high titres (>10<sup>12</sup> pfu mL<sup>-1</sup>) can be safely released into the aquifer, offering improved tracer detectability. However, the interpretation of bacteriophage tracer breakthrough curves is complicated as their fate and transport are impacted by aquifer physicochemical conditions. A comparative tracer migration experiment was conducted in a peri-urban catchment in southeast England to characterise the behaviour of MS2 bacteriophage relative to sodium fluorescein dye in a karstic chalk aquifer. Tracers were released into a stream sink and detected at two abstraction boreholes located 3 km and 10 km away. At both sites, the loss of MS2 phage greatly exceeded that of the solute tracer. In contrast, the qualitative shape of the dye and phage breakthrough curves were visually very similar, suggesting that the bacteriophage arriving at each site was governed by comparable transport parameters to the non-reactive dye tracer. The colloid filtration theory was applied to explain the apparent contradiction of comparable tracer breakthrough patterns despite massive phage losses in the subsurface. One-dimensional transport models were also fitted to each breakthrough curve to facilitate a quantitative comparison of the transport parameter values. The model results suggest that the bacteriophage migrates through the conduit system slightly faster than the fluorescent dye, but that the former is significantly less dispersed. These results suggest that whilst the bacteriophage tracer cannot be used to predict receptor concentrations from transport via karstic flow paths, it can provide estimates for groundwater flow and solute contaminant transit times. This study also provides insight into the attenuation and transport of pathogenic viruses in karstic chalk aquifers.

Rating: This abstract discusses the use of MS2 bacteriophage as a tracer in groundwater flow and contaminant migration studies, particularly in karst aquifers, but does not directly address the goal of modifying the phage for therapeutic use against multidrug resistant bacteria. Its main relevance is in providing some understanding of how the phage behaves in certain environments, which might indirectly inform lab-based research. However, it does not discuss the lysis protein or its interaction with DNAJ. Therefore, its relevance to the stated goal is quite low. Rating: 2/10.
------------------------------
Title: Mitigation of viruses of concern and bacteriophage surrogates via common unit processes for water reuse: A meta-analysis.
Abstract: Water reuse is a growing global reality. In regulating water reuse, viruses have come to the fore as key pathogens due to high shedding rates, low infectious doses, and resilience to traditional wastewater treatments. To demonstrate the high log reductions required by emerging water reuse regulations, cost and practicality necessitate surrogates for viruses for use as challenge organisms in unit process evaluation and monitoring. Bacteriophage surrogates that are mitigated to the same or lesser extent than viruses of concern are routinely used for individual unit process testing. However, the behavior of these surrogates over a multi-barrier treatment train typical of water reuse has not been well-established. Toward this aim, we performed a meta-analysis of log reductions of common bacteriophage surrogates for five treatment processes typical of water reuse treatment trains: advanced oxidation processes, chlorination, membrane filtration, ozonation, and ultraviolet (UV) disinfection. Robust linear regression was applied to identify a range of doses consistent with a given log reduction of bacteriophages and viruses of concern for each treatment process. The results were used to determine relative conservatism of surrogates. We found that no one bacteriophage was a representative or conservative surrogate for viruses of concern across all multi-barrier treatments (encompassing multiple mechanisms of virus mitigation). Rather, a suite of bacteriophage surrogates provides both a representative range of inactivation and information about the effectiveness of individual processes within a treatment train. Based on the abundance of available data and diversity of virus treatability using these five key water reuse treatment processes, bacteriophages MS2, phiX174, and Qbeta were recommended as a core suite of surrogates for virus challenge testing.

Rating: While this abstract discusses the use of bacteriophages, including MS2, as surrogates for viruses in water treatment processes, it does not relate directly to the modification of the MS2 phage lysis protein and its binding to DNAJ, or the use of this phage in therapy against multidrug resistant bacteria. Therefore, its relevance to the research goal is very low.

Rating: 1/10.
------------------------------
Title: Heat inactivation of aqueous viable norovirus and MS2 bacteriophage.
Abstract: This study aimed to compare the heat inactivation kinetics of viable human norovirus with the surrogate, MS2 bacteriophage as well as assess the decay of the RNA signal.

Rating: This abstract is not very relevant to the goal of modifying the MS2 phage lysis protein for use in phage therapy on multidrug resistant bacteria. It seems to be more focused on the heat resistance and RNA decay of the MS2 bacteriophage rather than its potential uses in phage therapy or its interaction with DNAJ. Rating: 2/10.
------------------------------
Title: Evaluation of woodchips-amended biosand filter for nitrate and MS2 bacteriophage reduction.
Abstract: In this study, two types of woodchip-amended biosand filters (Filter A sand: woodchip = 33%: 67% versus Filter B sand: woodchip = 50%: 50%, by volume) were constructed, and their abilities to remove MS2 bacteriophage and nitrate were investigated. The results indicated that Filter A and Filter B could reduce nitrate up to 40 and 36%, respectively, indicating that the nitrate reduction increased with the increase in woodchip proportion. The study underscores a positive correlation between nitrate reduction and proportional increase in woodchip content, implying the potential for fine-tuning nitrate removal by varying sand-woodchip compositions. W-BSFs could remove MS2 bacteriophage to 1.91-log10 (98.8%) by Filter A and 1.88-log10 (98.7%) by Filter B over 39 weeks. The difference in sand-woodchip proportion did not significantly impact the MS2 reduction, demonstrating that a single W-BSF can maintain its virus removal performance fairly well over a long-term period. These results indicated that the nitrate reduction could be adjusted by varying sand-woodchip contents without impacting virus removal performance. Microbial community analysis indicated that the nitrate removal by the W-BSFs could be attributed to the denitrifying bacteria, such as the family Streptomycetaceae, the genera Pseudomonas, and Bacillus, and relative abundances of the phylum Nitrospirae.

Rating: This abstract discusses a study on two woodchip-amended biosand filters, constructed to observe their abilities to remove MS2 bacteriophage and nitrate. However, the context of this study doesn't align with the target goal of modifying the MS2 phage lysis protein for it not to bind DNAJ. Thus, it does not offer relevant information on using this phage in phage therapy targeting multidrug resistant bacteria. 

Rating: 0/10
------------------------------
